## Using and extending the Power TAC logtool

The logtool is a simple framework for building tools that can read and analyze the state log files produced by the Power TAC simulation server. It is intended to be used by writing "analyzers" that wrap the framework. An analyzer extends the `LogtoolContext` class and implements the `Analyzer` interface. It works by setting up callbacks to pick off the state-log entries of interest, then passing a file to the framework. As the file is read, the server's data environment is reconstructed (approximately), and the items and events of interest are passed back to the analyzer. It is also possible to run the logtool top-down, in which a state log is read and events passed to several analyzers in parallel.

The logtool currently does not use all the data in a state log; in particular, it reads all the "new" methods, and does not read any methods other than "new" methods with the exception of the `timeService.updateTime()` methods. As it reads the file, it creates most of the objects it finds, and passes them to analyzer implementations as determined by their callback registrations.

The logtool is a Spring app, built on the Power TAC "common" module (the "logtool" branch until we merge it back), which defines all the domain types, their repositories, and the time service. All of the "core" domain types are read from the state log and stored in their respective repositories, including Brokers, Customers, Timeslots, TariffSpecifications, and their Rates. In addition, the TimeService is updated to give the "current time" as the file is read. As the tool is further developed, this capability should give a fairly complete reproduction of the server environment to analyzer developers. 

There are currently a few types that are completely ignored, including Tariff (mostly because its ID is the same as the id of the corresponding TariffSpecification), SimPause, SimResume, PauseRequest, PauseRelease, and some inner classes that get logged because of their inheritance, such as Rate$ProbeCharge, which is a subtype of HourlyCharge. Also missing currently is Genco, but this can easily be fixed.

Several analyzers are currently available in the separate logtool-examples module. Each of them has a main() method that takes a state log filename and the name of a file to dump data. They run in STS or in maven.
